TECHNICAL_DETAILS.md, before:

# Technical Details #

## Summary of supported features & options ##

| Option  | Status | Override via ASG conf |
| ------- | :----: | :-------------------: |
|Run on multiple regions | :white_check_mark: | :heavy_minus_sign: |
|Keep a fixed minimum percentage of on-demand | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Keep a fixed minimum number of on-demand | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Can bid at a certain percentage of the on-demand price | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Can bid the current spot price plus a certain percentage | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Whitelisting of certain instance types | :x: | :heavy_minus_sign: |
|Blacklisting of certain instance types | :white_check_mark: | :x: |

| Feature | Status |
| ------- | :----: |
|Install via Cloudformation | :white_check_mark: |
|Install via Terraform | :white_check_mark: |
|Works with code deploy | :white_check_mark: |
|Works with beanstalk | :white_check_mark: |
|Lambda X-Ray support | :x: |
|Graphing savings | :x: |
|Windows support | :x: |
|Handle spot termination's signal | :x: |
|SNS notifications on success/failure | :x: |

## Features and Benefits ##

- **Significant cost savings compared to on-demand or reserved instances**
  - up to 90% cost reduction compared to on-demand instances.
  - up to 75% cost reduction compared to reserved instances, without any
    down-payment or long term commitment.

- **Easy to install and set up on existing environments based on AutoScaling**
  - you can literally get started within minutes.
  - only needs to be installed once, in a single region, and can handle all
    other regions without any additional configuration (but can also be
    restricted to just a few regions if desired).
  - easy to enable and disable for reverting to the initial configuration based
    on resource tagging, if you decide you don't want to use it anymore.
  - easy to automate migration of multiple existing stacks, simply using scripts
    that set the expected tags on multiple AutoScaling groups.

- **Designed for use against AutoScaling groups with relatively long-running
    instances**
  - for use cases where it is acceptable to run on-demand instances from time to
    time.
  - for short-term batch processing use cases you should have a look into the
    [spot
    blocks](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-ec2-spot-blocks-for-defined-duration-workloads/)
    instead.

- **It doesn't interfere with the group's original launch configuration**
  - any instance replacement or scaling done by AutoScaling would still launch
    your previously configured on-demand instances.
  - on-demand instances often launch faster than spot ones so you don't need to
    wait for potentially slower spot instance fulfilment when you need to scale
    out or when you eventually lose some of the spot capacity.

- **Supports any higher level AWS services internally backed
    by AutoScaling**
  - services such as ECS or Elastic Beanstalk work out of the box with minimal
    configuration changes or tweaks.

- **Compatible out of the box with most AWS services that integrate
    with AutoScaling groups**
  - services such as ELB, ALB, CodeDeploy, CloudWatch, etc. should work out of
    the box or at most require minimal configuration changes.
  - as long as they support instances attached later to existing groups.
  - any other 3rd party services that run on top of AutoScaling groups should
    work as well.

- **Can automatically replace any instance types with any instance types
    available on the spot market**
  - as long as they are cheaper and at least as big as the original instances.
  - it doesn't matter if the original instance is available on the spot market:
    for example it is often replacing t2.medium with better m4.large instances,
    as long as they happen to be cheaper.

- **Self-hosted**
  - has no runtime dependencies on external infrastructure except for the
    regional EC2 and AutoScaling API endpoints.
  - it's not a SaaS, it fully runs within your AWS account.
  - it doesn't gather/persist/export any information about the resources running
    in your AWS account.

- **Free and open source**
  - there are no service fees at install time or run time.
  - you only pay for the small runtime costs it generates.
  - open source, so it is fully auditable and you can see the logs of everything
    it does.
  - the code is relatively small and simple so in case of bugs or missing
    features you may even be able to fix it yourself.

- **Negligible runtime costs**
  - you only pay for the bandwidth consumed performing API calls against AWS
  services across different regions.
  - backed by Lambda, with typical monthly execution time well within the Lambda
  free tier plan.

- **Minimalist and simple implementation**
  - currently about 1000 CLOC of relatively readable Golang code.
  - stateless, and without many moving parts.
  - leveraging and relying on battle-tested AWS services - namely AutoScaling -
    for most mission-critical things, such as instance health checks, horizontal
    scaling, replacement of terminated instances, integration with, ELB, ALB and
    CloudWatch.

- **Relatively safe and secure**
  - most runtime failures or crashes(quite rare nowadays) tend to be harmless.
  - often only result in failing to start new spot instances so your group will
    simply remain or fall back to on-demand capacity, just as it was before.
  - in most cases it is not impacting your running instances nor the ability to
    launch new ones.
  - only needs the minimum set of IAM permissions needed for it to do its job.
  - does not delegate any IAM permissions to resources outside of your AWS
    account.
  - execution scope can be limited to a certain set of regions.

- **Optimizes for high availability over cost whenever possible**
  - it tries to diversify the instance types to reduce the chance of
    simultaneous failures across the entire group. When having enough desired
    capacity, it is often spreading over four different spot pricing zones
    (instance type/availability zone combinations).
  - supports keeping a configurable number of on-demand instances in the group,
    either an absolute number or a percentage of the instances from the group.

## Replacement logic ##

Once enabled on an AutoScaling group, it is gradually replacing all the
on-demand instances belonging to the group with compatible and similarly
configured but cheaper spot instances.

The replacements are done using the relatively new Attach/Detach actions
supported by the AutoScaling API. A new compatible spot instance is launched,
and after a while, at least as much as the group's grace period, it will be
attached to the group, while at the same time an on-demand instance is detached
from the group and terminated in order to keep the group at constant capacity.

When assessing the compatibility, it takes into account the hardware specs, such
as CPU cores, RAM size, attached instance store volumes and their type and size,
as well as the supported virtualization types (HVM or PV) of both instance
types. The new spot instance is usually a few times cheaper than the original
instance, while also often providing more computing capacity.

The new spot instance is configured with the same roles, security groups and
tags and set to execute the same user data script as the original instance, so
from a functionality perspective it should be indistinguishable from other
instances in the group, although its hardware specs may be slightly
different(again: at least the same, but often can be of bigger capacity).

When replacing multiple instances in a group, the algorithm tries to use a wide
variety of instance types, in order to reduce the probability of simultaneous
failures that may impact the availability of the entire group. It always tries
to launch the cheapest available compatible instance type, but if the group
already has a considerable amount of instances of that type in the same
availability zone (currently more than 20% of the group's capacity is in that
zone and of that instance type), it picks the second cheapest compatible
instance, and so on.

During multiple replacements performed on a given group, it only swaps them one
at a time per Lambda function invocation, in order to not change the group too
fast, but instances belonging to multiple groups can be replaced concurrently.
If you find this slow, the Lambda function invocation frequency (defaulting to
once every 5 minutes) can be changed by updating the stack, which has a
parameter for it.

In the (so far unlikely) case in which the market price is high enough that
there are no spot instances that can be launched, (and also in case of software
crashes which may still rarely happen), the group would not be changed and it
would keep running as it is, but AutoSpotting will continuously attempt to
replace them, until eventually the prices decrease again and replaecments may
succeed again.

## Internal components ##

When deployed, the software consists on a number of resources running in your
Amazon AWS account, created automatically with CloudFormation or Terraform:

### Event generator ###

CloudWatch event source used for triggering the Lambda function. The default
frequency is every 5 minutes, but it is configurable using stack parameters.

### Lambda function ###

- AWS Lambda function connected to the event generator, which triggers it
  periodically.
- It has assigned a IAM role and policy with a set of permissions to call the
  APIs of various AWS services(EC2 and AutoScaling for now) within the user's
  account.
- The permissions are the minimal set required for it to work without the need
  of passing any explicit AWS credentials or access keys.
- Some algorithm parameters can be configured using Lambda environment
  variables, based on some of the stack parameters.
- Contains a handler written in Golang, built using the
  [eawsy/aws-lambda-go](https://github.com/eawsy/aws-lambda-go) library, which
  implements a novel aproach that allows Golang code compiled natively to be
  built in such a way that it can be injected into the Lambda Python runtime.
- The handler implements all the instance replacement logic.
- The spot instances are created by duplicating the configuration of the
  currently running on-demand instances as closely as possible(IAM roles,
  security groups, user_data script, etc.) only by adding a spot bid price
  attribute and eventually changing the instance type to a usually bigger, but
  compatible one.
- The bid price is set to the on-demand price of the instances configured
  initially on the AutoScaling group.
- The new launch configuration may also have a different instance type,
  determined based on compatibility with the original instance type,
  considering also how much redundancy we need to have in place in the current
  availability zone, in order to survive instance termination when outbid for
  a certain instance type.

## Running example ##

![Workflow](https://cdn.cloudprowess.com/images/autospotting.gif)

In this case the initial instance type was quite expensive, so the algorithm
chose a different type that had more computing capacity. At the end that group
had 3x more CPU cores and 66% more RAM than in the initial state of the group,
and all this with 33% cost savings and without running entirely on spot
instances, since some users find that a bit risky.

Nevertheless, AutoSpotting tends to be quite reliable even on all-spot
configurations (has automated failover to on-demand nodes and spreads over
multiple price zones), where it can often achieve savings up to 90% off
the usual on-demand prices, much like in the 85% price reduction shown below.
This was seen on a group of two m3.medium instances running in eu-west-1:

![Savings Graph](https://cdn.cloudprowess.com/images/autospotting-savings.png)

## Best Practices ##

These recommendations apply for most cloud environments, but they become
especially important when using more volatile spot instances.

- **Set a non-zero grace period on the AutoScaling group**
  - in order to attach spot instances only after they are fully configured.
  - otherwise they may be attached prematurely before being ready.
  - they may also be terminated after failing load balancer health checks.

- **Check your instance storage and block device mapping configuration**
  - this may become an issue if you use instances which have ephemeral instance
    storage, often the case on previous instance types.
  - you should only specify ephemeral instance store in the on-demand launch
    configuration if you do make use of it by mounting it on the filesystem.
  - the replacement algorithm tries to give you instances with as much instance
    storage as your original instances, since it can't tell if you did mount it.
  - this adds more constraints on the algorithm, so it reduces the number of
    compatible instance types it can use for launching spot instances.
  - this is fine if you actually use that instance storage, but it is reducing
    your options if you don't actually use it, so it may more often fail to get
    spot instances and fall back to on-demand capacity.

- **Don't keep state on instances**
  - You should delegate all your state to external services, AWS has a wide
    offering of stateful services which allow your instances to become
    stateless.
    - Databases: RDS, DynamoDB
    - Caches: ElastiCache
    - Storage: S3, EFS
    - Queues: SQS
  - Don't attach EBS volumes to individual instances, try to use EFS instead.

- **Handle the spot instance termination signal**
  - See the next section for more detailed instructions.

## Spot termination notifications ##

AWS
[notifies](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-ec2-spot-instance-termination-notices/)
your spot instances when they are about to be terminated by setting a dedicated
metadata field, so you can make use of that information to save whatever
temporary state you may still have on your running spot instances or to
gracoiusly remove them from the group.

There are existing third party tools which implement such a termination
notification handler, such as [seespot](https://github.com/acksin/seespot). This
will need to be integrated into your user_data script, for more details you can
read see the seespot tool's documentation.

### Instances behind an ELB ###

Instances behind an ELB can be graciously
[removed](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/elb-connection-draining-remove-instances-from-service-with-care/)
from the load balancer without losing connections. You should enable the
connection draining feature, and then you just need to append a snippet to
your user_data script, assuming your instances have enough IAM role permissions
to remove themselves from the load balancer.

### ECS container hosts ###

The container hosts can be
[drained](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/container-instance-draining.html)
in a similar way, by migrating all the Docker containers to the other hosts from
your cluster before the spot instance is terminated. This blog
[post](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/how-to-automate-container-instance-draining-in-amazon-ecs/)
explains it in great detail, until AWS hopefully implements this out of the box.

Commit message:

doc: add link to existing elements
To try making the usage of the options/features easier, the various
elements have been linked to specific part of the documentation.

TECHNICAL_DETAILS.md, after:

# Technical Details #

## Summary of supported features & options ##

| Option  | Status | Override via ASG conf |
| ------- | :----: | :-------------------: |
|Run on multiple regions | :white_check_mark: | :heavy_minus_sign: |
|[Keep a fixed minimum percentage of on-demand](https://github.com/cristim/autospotting/blob/master/START.md#minimum-on-demand-configuration) | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|[Keep a fixed minimum number of on-demand](https://github.com/cristim/autospotting/blob/master/START.md#minimum-on-demand-configuration) | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Can bid at a certain percentage of the on-demand price | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Can bid the current spot price plus a certain percentage | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
|Whitelisting of certain instance types | :x: | :heavy_minus_sign: |
|Blacklisting of certain instance types | :white_check_mark: | :x: |

For the options not directly linked to any specific part of the doc, please check [the configuration page](https://github.com/cristim/autospotting/blob/master/START.md#configuration-of-autospotting).

| Feature | Status |
| ------- | :----: |
|[Install via Cloudformation](https://github.com/cristim/autospotting/blob/master/START.md#install-via-cloudformation) | :white_check_mark: |
|[Install via Terraform](https://github.com/cristim/autospotting/blob/master/START.md#install-via-terraform) | :white_check_mark: |
|Works with code deploy | :white_check_mark: |
|[Works with beanstalk](https://github.com/cristim/autospotting/blob/053135e97082511fb99b689dce4a7a7830f3327c/START.md#for-elastic-beanstalk) | :white_check_mark: |
|Lambda X-Ray support | :x: |
|Graphing savings | :x: |
|Windows support | :x: |
|Handle spot termination's signal | :x: |
|SNS notifications on success/failure | :x: |

## Features and Benefits ##

- **Significant cost savings compared to on-demand or reserved instances**
  - up to 90% cost reduction compared to on-demand instances.
  - up to 75% cost reduction compared to reserved instances, without any
    down-payment or long term commitment.

- **Easy to install and set up on existing environments based on AutoScaling**
  - you can literally get started within minutes.
  - only needs to be installed once, in a single region, and can handle all
    other regions without any additional configuration (but can also be
    restricted to just a few regions if desired).
  - easy to enable and disable for reverting to the initial configuration based
    on resource tagging, if you decide you don't want to use it anymore.
  - easy to automate migration of multiple existing stacks, simply using scripts
    that set the expected tags on multiple AutoScaling groups.

- **Designed for use against AutoScaling groups with relatively long-running
    instances**
  - for use cases where it is acceptable to run on-demand instances from time to
    time.
  - for short-term batch processing use cases you should have a look into the
    [spot
    blocks](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-ec2-spot-blocks-for-defined-duration-workloads/)
    instead.

- **It doesn't interfere with the group's original launch configuration**
  - any instance replacement or scaling done by AutoScaling would still launch
    your previously configured on-demand instances.
  - on-demand instances often launch faster than spot ones so you don't need to
    wait for potentially slower spot instance fulfilment when you need to scale
    out or when you eventually lose some of the spot capacity.

- **Supports any higher level AWS services internally backed
    by AutoScaling**
  - services such as ECS or Elastic Beanstalk work out of the box with minimal
    configuration changes or tweaks.

- **Compatible out of the box with most AWS services that integrate
    with AutoScaling groups**
  - services such as ELB, ALB, CodeDeploy, CloudWatch, etc. should work out of
    the box or at most require minimal configuration changes.
  - as long as they support instances attached later to existing groups.
  - any other 3rd party services that run on top of AutoScaling groups should
    work as well.

- **Can automatically replace any instance types with any instance types
    available on the spot market**
  - as long as they are cheaper and at least as big as the original instances.
  - it doesn't matter if the original instance is available on the spot market:
    for example it is often replacing t2.medium with better m4.large instances,
    as long as they happen to be cheaper.

- **Self-hosted**
  - has no runtime dependencies on external infrastructure except for the
    regional EC2 and AutoScaling API endpoints.
  - it's not a SaaS, it fully runs within your AWS account.
  - it doesn't gather/persist/export any information about the resources running
    in your AWS account.

- **Free and open source**
  - there are no service fees at install time or run time.
  - you only pay for the small runtime costs it generates.
  - open source, so it is fully auditable and you can see the logs of everything
    it does.
  - the code is relatively small and simple so in case of bugs or missing
    features you may even be able to fix it yourself.

- **Negligible runtime costs**
  - you only pay for the bandwidth consumed performing API calls against AWS
  services across different regions.
  - backed by Lambda, with typical monthly execution time well within the Lambda
  free tier plan.

- **Minimalist and simple implementation**
  - currently about 1000 CLOC of relatively readable Golang code.
  - stateless, and without many moving parts.
  - leveraging and relying on battle-tested AWS services - namely AutoScaling -
    for most mission-critical things, such as instance health checks, horizontal
    scaling, replacement of terminated instances, integration with, ELB, ALB and
    CloudWatch.

- **Relatively safe and secure**
  - most runtime failures or crashes(quite rare nowadays) tend to be harmless.
  - often only result in failing to start new spot instances so your group will
    simply remain or fall back to on-demand capacity, just as it was before.
  - in most cases it is not impacting your running instances nor the ability to
    launch new ones.
  - only needs the minimum set of IAM permissions needed for it to do its job.
  - does not delegate any IAM permissions to resources outside of your AWS
    account.
  - execution scope can be limited to a certain set of regions.

- **Optimizes for high availability over cost whenever possible**
  - it tries to diversify the instance types to reduce the chance of
    simultaneous failures across the entire group. When having enough desired
    capacity, it is often spreading over four different spot pricing zones
    (instance type/availability zone combinations).
  - supports keeping a configurable number of on-demand instances in the group,
    either an absolute number or a percentage of the instances from the group.

## Replacement logic ##

Once enabled on an AutoScaling group, it is gradually replacing all the
on-demand instances belonging to the group with compatible and similarly
configured but cheaper spot instances.

The replacements are done using the relatively new Attach/Detach actions
supported by the AutoScaling API. A new compatible spot instance is launched,
and after a while, at least as much as the group's grace period, it will be
attached to the group, while at the same time an on-demand instance is detached
from the group and terminated in order to keep the group at constant capacity.

When assessing the compatibility, it takes into account the hardware specs, such
as CPU cores, RAM size, attached instance store volumes and their type and size,
as well as the supported virtualization types (HVM or PV) of both instance
types. The new spot instance is usually a few times cheaper than the original
instance, while also often providing more computing capacity.

The new spot instance is configured with the same roles, security groups and
tags and set to execute the same user data script as the original instance, so
from a functionality perspective it should be indistinguishable from other
instances in the group, although its hardware specs may be slightly
different(again: at least the same, but often can be of bigger capacity).

When replacing multiple instances in a group, the algorithm tries to use a wide
variety of instance types, in order to reduce the probability of simultaneous
failures that may impact the availability of the entire group. It always tries
to launch the cheapest available compatible instance type, but if the group
already has a considerable amount of instances of that type in the same
availability zone (currently more than 20% of the group's capacity is in that
zone and of that instance type), it picks the second cheapest compatible
instance, and so on.

During multiple replacements performed on a given group, it only swaps them one
at a time per Lambda function invocation, in order to not change the group too
fast, but instances belonging to multiple groups can be replaced concurrently.
If you find this slow, the Lambda function invocation frequency (defaulting to
once every 5 minutes) can be changed by updating the stack, which has a
parameter for it.

In the (so far unlikely) case in which the market price is high enough that
there are no spot instances that can be launched, (and also in case of software
crashes which may still rarely happen), the group would not be changed and it
would keep running as it is, but AutoSpotting will continuously attempt to
replace them, until eventually the prices decrease again and replaecments may
succeed again.

## Internal components ##

When deployed, the software consists on a number of resources running in your
Amazon AWS account, created automatically with CloudFormation or Terraform:

### Event generator ###

CloudWatch event source used for triggering the Lambda function. The default
frequency is every 5 minutes, but it is configurable using stack parameters.

### Lambda function ###

- AWS Lambda function connected to the event generator, which triggers it
  periodically.
- It has assigned a IAM role and policy with a set of permissions to call the
  APIs of various AWS services(EC2 and AutoScaling for now) within the user's
  account.
- The permissions are the minimal set required for it to work without the need
  of passing any explicit AWS credentials or access keys.
- Some algorithm parameters can be configured using Lambda environment
  variables, based on some of the stack parameters.
- Contains a handler written in Golang, built using the
  [eawsy/aws-lambda-go](https://github.com/eawsy/aws-lambda-go) library, which
  implements a novel aproach that allows Golang code compiled natively to be
  built in such a way that it can be injected into the Lambda Python runtime.
- The handler implements all the instance replacement logic.
- The spot instances are created by duplicating the configuration of the
  currently running on-demand instances as closely as possible(IAM roles,
  security groups, user_data script, etc.) only by adding a spot bid price
  attribute and eventually changing the instance type to a usually bigger, but
  compatible one.
- The bid price is set to the on-demand price of the instances configured
  initially on the AutoScaling group.
- The new launch configuration may also have a different instance type,
  determined based on compatibility with the original instance type,
  considering also how much redundancy we need to have in place in the current
  availability zone, in order to survive instance termination when outbid for
  a certain instance type.

## Running example ##

![Workflow](https://cdn.cloudprowess.com/images/autospotting.gif)

In this case the initial instance type was quite expensive, so the algorithm
chose a different type that had more computing capacity. At the end that group
had 3x more CPU cores and 66% more RAM than in the initial state of the group,
and all this with 33% cost savings and without running entirely on spot
instances, since some users find that a bit risky.

Nevertheless, AutoSpotting tends to be quite reliable even on all-spot
configurations (has automated failover to on-demand nodes and spreads over
multiple price zones), where it can often achieve savings up to 90% off
the usual on-demand prices, much like in the 85% price reduction shown below.
This was seen on a group of two m3.medium instances running in eu-west-1:

![Savings Graph](https://cdn.cloudprowess.com/images/autospotting-savings.png)

## Best Practices ##

These recommendations apply for most cloud environments, but they become
especially important when using more volatile spot instances.

- **Set a non-zero grace period on the AutoScaling group**
  - in order to attach spot instances only after they are fully configured.
  - otherwise they may be attached prematurely before being ready.
  - they may also be terminated after failing load balancer health checks.

- **Check your instance storage and block device mapping configuration**
  - this may become an issue if you use instances which have ephemeral instance
    storage, often the case on previous instance types.
  - you should only specify ephemeral instance store in the on-demand launch
    configuration if you do make use of it by mounting it on the filesystem.
  - the replacement algorithm tries to give you instances with as much instance
    storage as your original instances, since it can't tell if you did mount it.
  - this adds more constraints on the algorithm, so it reduces the number of
    compatible instance types it can use for launching spot instances.
  - this is fine if you actually use that instance storage, but it is reducing
    your options if you don't actually use it, so it may more often fail to get
    spot instances and fall back to on-demand capacity.

- **Don't keep state on instances**
  - You should delegate all your state to external services, AWS has a wide
    offering of stateful services which allow your instances to become
    stateless.
    - Databases: RDS, DynamoDB
    - Caches: ElastiCache
    - Storage: S3, EFS
    - Queues: SQS
  - Don't attach EBS volumes to individual instances, try to use EFS instead.

- **Handle the spot instance termination signal**
  - See the next section for more detailed instructions.

## Spot termination notifications ##

AWS
[notifies](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-ec2-spot-instance-termination-notices/)
your spot instances when they are about to be terminated by setting a dedicated
metadata field, so you can make use of that information to save whatever
temporary state you may still have on your running spot instances or to
gracoiusly remove them from the group.

There are existing third party tools which implement such a termination
notification handler, such as [seespot](https://github.com/acksin/seespot). This
will need to be integrated into your user_data script, for more details you can
read see the seespot tool's documentation.

### Instances behind an ELB ###

Instances behind an ELB can be graciously
[removed](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/elb-connection-draining-remove-instances-from-service-with-care/)
from the load balancer without losing connections. You should enable the
connection draining feature, and then you just need to append a snippet to
your user_data script, assuming your instances have enough IAM role permissions
to remove themselves from the load balancer.

### ECS container hosts ###

The container hosts can be
[drained](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/container-instance-draining.html)
in a similar way, by migrating all the Docker containers to the other hosts from
your cluster before the spot instance is terminated. This blog
[post](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/how-to-automate-container-instance-draining-in-amazon-ecs/)
explains it in great detail, until AWS hopefully implements this out of the box.
